## perpetuals

<br>

#### [perpetual swap](https://app.laevitas.ch/altsderivs/GMX/perpetualswaps)


* trading product first introduced in 2016 by bitmex
* has become popular with trading volumes of over $180 mi
* offer traders a chance to take on large positions with little money down
* like other types of derivatives such as futures and options, perpetual swaps provide a means to speculate on the value of the assets while the contract is held
* unlike future contracts, perpetual swaps do not have expiration dates
* [hot tub by perpetual swap](https://perpprotocol.mirror.xyz/8C0shiFg0YbhkGOF3i9jFVmyCumKncdsgviDE4qQtjQ)

<br>

#### [synthetix](https://synthetix.io/)



* one of ethereum's ecosystem's leading derivatives projects.
* a derivative liquidity protocol that powers the creation of "synths" (synthetic assets) that can be traded in a decentralized and permissionless manner.
* synths let traders capitalize on exposure to assets without having to directly own the assets in question.
* some of Synthetix's most popular synths are its forex synths: sUDS and sEUR.
* a foundational element of Synthetix is SNX staking, which is used for collateralizing the derivatives protocol and for creating deep liquidity for synths.
* SNX stakers earn inflationary SNX rewards and a cut of sUSD fees generated by protocols that work on top of Synthetix. 
* [kwenta perp trading platform on synthetix](https://mirror.xyz/kwenta.eth)
    * The primary DEX in the Synthetix ecosystem.
    * Designed to facilitate zero-slippage synth trading.
    * it does not rely on an orderbook or liquidity pool model, but instead the DEX employs a peer-to-contract system in which synths are traded against a smart contract informed by Chainlink price feeds.

