## derivatives

<br>

### perpetual swap

* trading product first introduced in 2016 by bitmex
* has become popular with trading volumes of over $180 mi
* offer traders a chance to take on large positions with little money down
* like other types of derivatives such as futures and options, perpetual swaps provide a means to speculate on the value of the assets while the contract is held
* unlike future contracts, perpetual swaps do not have expiration dates



<br>

----

## [synthetix](https://synthetix.io/)

* one of ethereum's ecosystem's leading derivatives projects.
* a derivative liquidity protocol that powers the creation of "synths" (synthetic assets) that can be traded in a decentralized and permissionless manner.
* synths let traders capitalize on exposure to assets without having to directly own the assets in question.
* some of Synthetix's most popular synths are its forex synths: sUDS and sEUR.
* a foundational element of Synthetix is SNX staking, which is used for collateralizing the derivatives protocol and for creating deep liquidity for synths.
* SNX stakers earn inflationary SNX rewards and a cut of sUSD fees generated by protocols that work on top of Synthetix. 

<br>

---

### kwenta

* The primary DEX in the Synthetix ecosystem.
* Designed to facilitate zero-slippage synth trading.
* It does not rely on an orderbook or liquidity pool model, but instead the DEX employs a peer-to-contract system in which synths are traded against a smart contract informed by Chainlink price feeds.

<br>


---

### Lyra

* Lyra is a decentralized options trading protocol powered by a specialized AMM system.
* It uses Synthetix's sUSD stablecoin as its exclusive quote asset, so traders pay for opening long positions or closing short positions with sUSD.
* Lyra also uses Synthetix as a one-stop protocol for getting long and short exposure on its markets' base assets (delta hedging).

<br>


---

### Thales

* Decentralized binary options protocol that a group of Synthetix community members spun in 2020.
* If held until expiry, binary options have only two payoff possibilities: a predetermined amount of profit or nothing.
* Relies on Synthetix's sUSD stablecoin for minting its binary options tokens and as the platform's unit of account.

<br>

----

### [metronome](https://www.metronome.io/)

* synthetic protocol to enable users to generate a variety of synthetics using crypto assets as collateral

<br>

---

### resources

* [defi derivative landscape](https://github.com/0xperp/defi-derivatives)
* [put-call parity](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/putcallparity.asp#:~:text=Understanding%20Put%2DCall%20Parity,-As%20noted%20above&text=Put%2Dcall%20parity%20states%20that,to%20the%20option's%20strike%20price.)


