# Notes on Derivatives

<br>


## Synthetix

* [Synthetix](https://synthetix.io/) is one of the Ethereum's ecosystem's leading derivatives projects.
* It's a derivative liquidity protocol that powers the creation of "synths" (synthetic assets) that can be traded in a decentralized and permissionless manner.
* Synths let traders capitalize on exposure to assets without having to directly own the assets in question.
* Some of Synthetix's most popular synths are its forex synths: sUDS and sEUR.
* A foundational element of Synthetix is SNX staking, which is used for collateralizing the derivatives protocol and for creating deep liquidity for synths.
* SNX stakers earn inflationary SNX rewards and a cut of sUSD fees generated by protocols that work on top of Synthetix. 

<br>


### Kwenta

* The primary DEX in the Synthetix ecosystem.
* Designed to facilitate zero-slippage synth trading.
* It does not rely on an orderbook or liquidity pool model, but instead the DEX employs a peer-to-contract system in which synths are traded against a smart contract informed by Chainlink price feeds.

<br>

### Lyra

* Lyra is a decentralized options trading protocol powered by a specialized AMM system.
* It uses Synthetix's sUSD stablecoin as its exclusive quote asset, so traders pay for opening long positions or closing short positions with sUSD.
* Lyra also uses Synthetix as a one-stop protocol for getting long and short exposure on its markets' base assets (delta hedging).

<br>

### Thales

* Decentralized binary options protocol that a group of Synthetix community members spun in 2020.
* If held until expiry, binary options have only two payoff possibilities: a predetermined amount of profit or nothing.
* Relies on Synthetix's sUSD stablecoin for minting its binary options tokens and as the platform's unit of account.




